#summary Summary of supported parameters, control variables, and state variables.

= Definitions =

  * *Parameters* are fixed throughout a simulation. They may be changed by the user, causing a completely new simulation to be run.
  * *Algorithm Parameters* determine the methods use to adjust the control variables.
  * *State Variables* store an agent's state at a given step in the simulation, probably including position and velocity.
  * *Control Variables* are those that a player can change. These directly impact the player's state, in a manner probably determined by the parameters.

Apart from these:
  * *Visual Parameters* are parameters that do not impact the underlying mathematics, the result of the simulation.
  * *Utilities* can be used to generate initial positions for the agents, etc. They control how specific parameters are determined prior to the simulation.

=== Comments ===
  * The *parameters* are ALL that is needed to _RECONSTRUCT_ a simulation. The *state variables* and *control variables* are used _DURING_ the simulation.
  * The *parameters* are what needs to be saved to disk to reload the simulation.


= Listing of Parameters and Variables =

== Agent ==

  * *Locational*: starting location, top speed, turning radius _(parameters)_ ; active status, position, velocity _(states)_ ; change in heading/direction _(control)_
  * *Sensory*: sensor radius, communications radius _(parameters)_ ; visible opponent locations, communicated opponent locations _(states)_ ; sensor fusion _(algorithm)_
  * *Behavioral*: task list _(state)_ ; task generator, task prioritizer, task implementer/behavior (_algorithms_)
  * *Visual*: color, path style, agent marker style, etc.

== Team ==

  * *Compositional*: size, agents, default agent parameters, initially active agents _(parameters)_
  * *Sensory*: team sensing capability _(parameter)_; team-visible opponent locations _(state)_
  * *Behavioral*: team task generator, capture condition, victory conditions/goals _(algorithms)_
  * *Visual*: default color, style, etc.

== Simulation ==

  * _Parameters_: maximum simulation time, time delta, obstacles, teams
  * _State variables_: current time


= Utility Algorithms =

Some additional algorithms are used to help generate parameters for teams and for agents. These can be used prior to a simulation's start to set certain parameters, but by themselves they aren't really parameters of particular players, teams, or the simulation. Here they are:

  * *Locational*: starting location generator (_algorithm_)
  * *Activator*: sets initially active agents (_algorithm_)